# Intro to Javascript 
Javascript is a lightweight interpreted compiled programming language with **first-class functions**.(First-class functions mean that functions are treated like any other variable.) Javascript is mostly known for scripting web pages, but many non browser environments(like terminals) also use it.

Javascript is **prototype-based**, meaning it's classes aren't specifically defined you can create an object without first defining it's class.

Javascript is different than Java programming language, though they are owned by the same company, they have different syntax and semantics.

## Javascript Syntax
There a three major parts of Javascript
1. The language itself is pretty standard  among various environments browser and server-side.

2. The DOM API- how the language can interact with the various parts of a web page while in the browser. While in this respect the various browsers are getting closer to each other they can still have differences. Efforts are being made to make a uniform API

3. The server API provided by Node.js or another server-side system.

## Embed or Include 
You can embed Javascript code directly into your HTML file, or you can use the script tag in HTML to directly connect your script file to HTML

## Ways to get Input
The first is called prompt. It's going to show a pop-up window with text and a textbox the user can fill. When OK is pressed the textbox will returned by the prompt () function.

The next pop-up isn't really an input method, it just asks a yes or no question and gives boolean.

Of course in order for this to make more sense you'll have to understand what true and false really mean and what this if - else construct does. If you have programming background then you probably already understand the code, and even if you don't have programming background you might figure out.

That code can basically be translated to the following English sentence:

If confirm returned true, print "Hello World", otherwise print "OK, I won't print it."

Or even better:

If the user presses OK when we asked "Shall I print Hello World?", then print "Hello World", otherwise print "OK, I won't print it."

## EventTarget.addEventListener
The addEventListener() method of the EventTarget interface sets up a function that will be called whenever the specified event is delivered to the target.

The method addEventListener() works by adding a function, or an object that implements EventListener, to the list of event listeners for the specified event type on the EventTarget on which it's called. If the function or object is already in the list of event listeners for this target, the function or object is not added a second time.

If an event listener is added to an EventTarget from inside another listener — that is, during the processing of the event — that event will not trigger the new listener. However, the new listener may be triggered during a later stage of event flow, such as during the bubbling phase.

### Syntax
addEventListener(type, listener)
addEventListener(type, listener, options)
addEventListener(type, listener, useCapture)

## Parameters
### type
A case-sensitive string representing the event type to listen for.

### listener
The object that receives a notification (an object that implements the Event interface) when an event of the specified type occurs. This must be null, an object with a handleEvent() method, or a JavaScript function. See The event listener callback for details on the callback itself.

### options (Optional)
An object that specifies characteristics about the event listener. The available options are:

### capture (Optional)
A boolean value indicating that events of this type will be dispatched to the registered listener before being dispatched to any EventTarget beneath it in the DOM tree. If not specified, defaults to false.

### once (Optional)
A boolean value indicating that the listener should be invoked at most once after being added. If true, the listener would be automatically removed when invoked. If not specified, defaults to false.

### passive (Optional)
A boolean value that, if true, indicates that the function specified by listener will never call preventDefault(). If a passive listener does call preventDefault(), the user agent will do nothing other than generate a console warning. If not specified, defaults to false – except that in browsers other than Safari and Internet Explorer, defaults to true for the wheel, mousewheel, touchstart and touchmove events. See Improving scrolling performance with passive listeners to learn more.

### signal (Optional)
An AbortSignal. The listener will be removed when the given AbortSignal object's abort() method is called. If not specified, no AbortSignal is associated with the listener.

### useCapture (Optional)
A boolean value indicating whether events of this type will be dispatched to the registered listener before being dispatched to any EventTarget beneath it in the DOM tree. Events that are bubbling upward through the tree will not trigger a listener designated to use capture. Event bubbling and capturing are two ways of propagating events that occur in an element that is nested within another element, when both elements have registered a handle for that event. The event propagation mode determines the order in which elements receive the event. See DOM Level 3 Events and JavaScript Event order for a detailed explanation. If not specified, useCapture defaults to false.




